Streaming applications are often concerned with blocks of time,
not just a running aggregate of all data ever produced.
Thus, most stream processing frameworks have built-in
time framing tooling often referred to as windowing.
The following sections we'll see how we can use windowing to achieve our analysis goals.
In the previous sections, we learned about the types of processing we might
perform on an input data stream and a stream processing application.
We also vaguely touched on the notion of time periods noting that in
stream processing we don't usually look at all the data in a stream at once.
How we decide the time frame contain the data that
we do look at is a process known as windowing.
A window in a stream processing application is a period of time with
a start and an end in which data is gathered for analysis key by key.
So here, the start might be at this event at this point in
time and the end would be at this event at this point in time.
For example, we might decide we want to analyze all the purchases in the last one hour.
The window of the last one hour would start right now and end 60 minutes in the past.
As time progresses forward say by a minute,
any data that's older than one hour would be removed from our window.
So for in this example,
all this data would be outside of the scope of our window.
Windows can also take place in the past.
They don't always have to be relative to the current moment of time.
We could run the same one hour purchase analysis but run it for
the same time yesterday when we could go and so on.
So we could pretend in this example on
the screen that maybe we're delaying this window by an hour.
So the start time is now minus one hour,
to now minus two hours if this is a one hour window.
Windows are the building blocks of the aggregation and joined
functions that allow us to create interesting stream processing applications.
That the rest of this section I will review
the specific flavors of time windowing available.
One final note, not all stream processing frameworks
implement the same windowing types though most will implement what we're about to cover.